Egyptians are believed to be the first people to have domesticated cats more than 4,000 years ago. Cats became invaluable to the Egyptians due to the felines’ incomparable ability to exterminate mice and other rodents, thereby protecting food stores. Cats became so useful that the Egyptians came to regard cats as sacred feline deities, and killing a cat became a crime punishable by death. After death, cats were treated to the same burial rites as people: they were mummified and buried, often in enormous tombs with thousands of other cats.
Although not as good at detecting lower pitches, cats can pick up sounds so faint or high-pitched they are out of the range of human hearing. Sound is an important part of the cat’s world for both surviving and communicating. Listen to how many different sounds a cat makes—this is a cat communicating in an undeniably complex language. Because a cat hears high-pitched sounds better than you, it is important that you be aware of noise levels in a home, particularly if a cat is timid or easily upset by commotion. Are you playing music loudly or using the vacuum cleaner? If a cat is reacting to these sounds, it is best to create a quiet, calm room for a cat to stay in while you are cleaning or entertaining guests.
The wet, pebbly patch of skin on a cat’s nose is called a rhinarium.  It can catch and hold scent molecules and gives a cat a superior sense of smell. In fact, smell is so important to a cat’s survival that they have a secondary olfactory organ. On the roof of a cat’s mouth behind the front teeth is the vomeronasal organ, which you can see when a cat yawns. When confronted with an especially interesting or unusual smell, a cat will drop its jaw open and let the scent waft across the vomeronasal organ in a behavior called the Flehmen response. 
In addition, because scent is vital to cats, they will mark just about anything.  For cats, scent is a means of communication. Try this experiment aself: present a cat with a new object and observe his reaction. Most likely, a cat will smell the object. If it looks interesting (and inedible and non-threatening), the cat will butt the object with his head and rub the side of his face (and sometimes his whole body) against the object.  A cat has just claimed the new object by marking it with pheromones. Cats have scent glands on the sides of their faces and in other places along their bodies and tails. In the wild, scenting is the way cats communicate with other cats.  When a cat weaves around legs or ankles, he is showing love by depositing his unique scent and claiming you as his own!
Scenting and marking territory with urine is another way cats communicate “owned” property. For cats who are domesticated and reside in a house, spraying urine can create considerable problems within the household. For more information on understanding spraying and modifying the behavior.  
Scratching is an instinctive behavior that has many practical purposes, such as scenting, stretching and exercising and keeping nails in good condition. Cats scratch for multiple reasons, and though this behavior is useful and necessary for both the mental and physical health of a cat, the behavior often can be at odds with a guardian’s desire to keep furniture intact and pristine.  Luckily, there are many ways to keep cats from scratching inappropriate surfaces.  Read more about the importance of scratching and painless, easy alternatives to declawing 
Cats have a very keen and sophisticated sense of touch; they have millions of touch receptors all over their bodies. These receptors are most numerous in the face (nose, whiskers) and feet (paw/paw pad) areas. The whiskers of a cat are extremely sensitive to touch and are important in helping the cat to feel for prey while hunting and in navigating around dark areas and through narrow passages (the whiskers will tell the cat if he can fit into a small passage way or between two objects). The touch receptors in the paw pads are also adapted for hunting and are valuable in helping a cat to determine the type of prey (even in the dark) and if the prey is still alive. Paw pads and nose touch receptors are also very sensitive to temperature.
 Since taste is related to smell, and cats have a superior sense of smell, their sense of taste is exceptional, too.  However, this does not necessarily mean a cat has what we might consider good taste. Cats will put things in their mouths that we find disgusting or unclean. This is part curiosity and part necessity as the only way for cats to carry something is in their mouths.
When it comes to food, cats have different likes and dislikes. It is important for you to discover what type of food is appealing to a cat to ensure that he eats well. It is also important, however, for you to be aware of what diet is healthiest for a cat. Sometimes the food a cat wants to eat is not always the healthiest option—just like children, cats often prefer “junk food” to healthy, nutritionally complete foods. 
Contrary to popular belief, cats cannot see in total darkness. Mammals need some light to see; however, cats are far better equipped to see in minimal light. Unlike our pupils, which expand and contract as a circle, cats’ pupils begin as tiny vertical slits that can open to include the entire iris, the colored portion of the eye. The tapetum is a reflective layer of cells at the back of the eye that bounces even the faintest light back through the light-sensitive cells. Have you ever noticed a cat’s eyes glowing at night? The glowing is actually light reflected off the tapetum. This reflective feature enhances a cat’s ability to best utilize low amounts of light, a trait all nocturnal animals need to survive.
Cats are naturally nocturnal (most active at night) and crepuscular (most active at dawn and dusk) animals. If we consider that the domesticated cat’s ancestors came from the plains and deserts of Africa, the modern cat’s midnight antics make perfect sense. Temperatures rise dramatically during the day on the African grasslands.  To survive the heat, animals find shade and sit still. A smart predator (which the cat most certainly is) won’t waste energy searching out hiding places of prey and chasing down game while the sun is up. At sunset, the temperature drops and darkness hides movement. This is the ideal time to come out to find food and water, and it is precisely the time w hen the ancestors of a cat went on the prowl. So a cat’s noisy charging around at 3 a.m. isn’t necessarily a “behavior problem”—it’s an instinct!
Any horizontal surface is an invitation to a cat. A young and determined cat can leap almost straight up two or three times his body length. In human terms, that would mean being able to high-jump about 12-to-18 feet from a dead start. Cats also will fearlessly jump several feet across horizontal chasms and “tight-rope” walk along narrow passages many feet off the ground. Cats also like to “roost” in high places—atop the refrigerator or on the top shelf of the closet. This desire to climb and sleep in high places is a survival instinct passed on from their wild ancestors. In the wild, cats have to follow prey up cliff faces and along the limbs of trees. In addition, cats in the wild have to hide from predators, and the best place to hide is up high where nothing can sneak up behind them. These survival instincts are alive and well in even the laziest domesticated house cat!
Many domesticated cats live day-to-day being slightly dehydrated. This is due, in part, to their desert ancestry, when they were engineered to survive without access to regular water sources. Domesticated cats sometimes require encouragement to drink. Try including moisture-rich wet food in a cat’s diet. It is also important to have more than one water bowl and to place these bowls throughout the house. Sometimes cats are more inclined to drink from water bowls that are in a different location than their food bowls.  You can also invest in water fountains, as many cats prefer to drink from runningwater sources. Also, be sure to place a cat’s water bowls in safe, quiet areas away from dogs, young children or general household commotion. Remember, in the wild, cats take time to drink only when it’s quiet and they’re safe from predators. Read more about proper feline diet and nutrition.
Good nutrition is essential to a cat’s overall health.  The best diet for a cat is one that replicates what she would eat in the wild—a moisture-rich, meat-filled diet. Cats are obligate (true) carnivores, and therefore require more quality-source protein in their diets than most other animals.
    Cats usually rely on their diet for moisture and don’t drink as much water as they might need.  Canned foods have significantly more moisture than dry or “semi-moist” foods.  Canned foods also are lower in carbohydrates and can be especially beneficial for cats with urinary issues, diabetes and other illnesses, as well as in the prevention and treatment of feline obesity.  Although there has been concern in the past that feeding only canned food could result in dental disease, we now know that most dry diets do not significantly improve dental health. In fact, only specific dry dental diets with the Veterinary Oral Health Council (VOHC) seal have been shown to reduce tartar and plaque formation and gingivitis
Cats scratch for a variety of reasons, ranging from simple pleasure and exercise to complex instinctual motivations. Here are some of the reasons cats scratch: • Scratching communicates a cat’s  presence with both physical and scent marks. Cats’ paws have  special scent glands between the toes  that leave a residual scent (pheromone) after they’ve scratched. We  can’t smell these scents, but for cats  they’re a powerful form of communication.  • Scratching is a good form of exercise.  Indoor cats in particular need all the exercise they can get.  • Scratching helps cats groom by removing old nail sheaths.  • Cats express emotions through   scratching. Have you noticed a  cat scratching when you arrive home  from work or as you prepare his  dinner? A cat is expressing his excitement!
   Nail clipping is an important part of keeping a housecat groomed. If a cat’s nails grow too long, they can cut into the paw pad and cause infection, or at the very least, discomfort. To clip a cat’s nails, simply grasp the paw and squeeze the pad so that the nails unsheathe. Look for the pink part (the “quick”) inside the base of the nail. This is the sensitive tissue that contains the vessels and nerves.  Don’t cut close to the quick. All you need to do is clip off the curved part of the nail. If you only cut off this small part, you run little risk of cutting the quick. 
A video demonstration of nail clipping from Cornell Feline Health Center can be found at http://partnersah.vet.cornell.edu/pet/fhc/trimming_claws.
Ideally, nails should be clipped regularly from kittenhood, so that the process becomes familiar and non-threatening.  Touch a cat’s paws often when the cat is calm to help him get accustomed to the way it feels. You also can train a cat to enjoy nail clipping by offering treats when you use the clippers. For adult cats who will not tolerate nail clippings without biting and struggling, it is best to get someone to assist. Two people can easily wrap the cat in a towel or blanket (make sure to cover his face so a cat cannot bite anyone), and then clip the nails. If this isn’t possible, a veterinarian or a qualified groomer can clip a cat’s nails.
    A good scratching post should have a strong and sturdy base (so it will not rock or tip over when a cat uses it) and should be no less than two feet high (taller is preferable), so a cat can get a full-body stretch.  The post should be covered in sisal or a similar natural fiber. Smaller, carpetcovered posts are unappealing to many cats because they won’t reliably hold a cat’s weight. In addition, there’s no clear distinction for a cat between a carpetcovered post and the carpet on a floor.  We recommend spending a little extra money for a good, natural fiber-covered post that will keep for years, save a furniture and appeal to a cats.
Many people believe that cats are too independent or apathetic to respond to people’s attempts to modify their behavior. But the failures people have experienced when attempting to alter their cat’s behavior are not the fault of the cat.  Rather, they are a misunderstandings between humans and felines. The motivations behind cat behavior are complicated and deep-seated, but with creative thinking, flexibility and patience, you can correct unwanted behavior in a feline companions.
A kitten’s mind is a terrible thing to waste. “It all began when my clients in puppy classes wanted equal attention for their cats,” says Dr. Kersti Seksel, a veterinary behaviorist in Seaforth, New South Wales, Australia. “Kittens have potential, and kittens deserve an education too.” 
Spraying is a way for cats to mark their territory. Intact un-neutered) males are the biggest culprits, as they spray to claim territory over competing males. But spraying also can be a way for female or neutered male cats to mark their territory if they perceive a threat within their home or space. Urine sprayed on vertical surfaces is always considered urine marking, but both male and female cats also can mark with urine on horizontal surfaces. Horizontal urine marking is often near a door with access to the outside or an area of the home which houses another animal. 
While most people rarely give more than a passing thought to their cat’s bladder, it is in fact connected to a wide host of health problems. Some of these issues include infections, blockages (like stones and crystals), and inflammation. Each specific complication can be identified by symptoms which often include difficulty urinating or frequent urination, blood in the urine, licking the genitals, or urinating outside the litter box.
Obesity is a significant health risk for cats. While normally associated with heart and artery health, obesity can in fact have negative effects on a cat’s bladder. Often, significant weight gain can cause incontinence in a cat, which will result in involuntary urination. This can be distressing for the cat and inconvenient for the owner. Luckily, this is an issue that is easily rectified simply by bringing the cat’s weight down to a healthy level.
Although the volume capacity of cats’ bladders is naturally smaller than that of humans (who normally have a capacity of 400-600 mL), there is a wide variation in the amount of urine that they can store. Generally, a healthy range is between 150-250 mL. Some cats have been known to reach up to 300 mL, but this is quite abnormal. In fact, this is a fairly large capacity. Given the relative size, it is surprising that the volume capacity of a human bladder is generally only 100-200 mL more than a cat bladder.
Although the exact frequency of urination will vary between cats, most cat bladders must be emptied every 8-12 hours. If a cat is not urinating within this range, they may be prone to infections or suffering a more serious health issue that is preventing them from urinating properly.
It is always recommended to check the cat’s litter box daily to ensure that they are urinating normally. Too much or too little urine may be a symptom of a health problem. On average, cats will create up to 3 fist-sized clumps of litter in their litter box each day.
One of the most serious health issues for cats, just like humans, is cancer. Luckily, bladder cancer in cats is exceedingly rare. When it does occur, it tends to be caused by lymphoma. Interestingly, bladder cancer in cats is nearly identical to kidney cancer in its growth and prognosis.
While a cat owner might automatically assume that their cat is simply behaving poorly when it pees outside the litter box, it may be doing so because of bladder complications. Issues with bladder health like infections and inflammation can cause a cat significant pain when urinating. This can lead to the cat associating the litter box with pain, which will cause them to avoid it.
Another consequence of a compromised bladder is that the cat will seek help. One of the ways it may get its owner’s attention is by causing trouble and peeing where it knows it should not. Knowing more about their cat’s bladder health can help owners know when to discipline their pet and when to seek medical attention.
Expressing a cat’s bladder is to manually squeeze out its urine. This occurs when the cat is unable to urinate on its own. There are many reasons for this, including paralysis. However, it is important to help a cat urinate several times each day if it cannot on its own.
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and downWhen a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
 A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.i
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
Cats don't actually meow at each other, just at humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).[4]
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Rome has more homeless cats per square mile than any other city in the world.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
